# ULBMiner
Efficient high utility itemset mining using buffered utility-lists.

This repository contains the implementation for the utility list buffer work, published in Applied Intelligence. For more information, please contact the authors.

**Citation**: Efficient high utility itemset mining using buffered utility-lists, Quang-Huy Duong, Philippe Fournier-Viger, Heri Ramampiaro, Kjetil Nørvåg & Thu-Lan Dam, Applied Intelligence, volume 48, pages: 1859–1877, 2018.

**Abstract**: Discovering high utility itemsets in customer transaction databases is a key task for studying the behavior of customers. It consists of ﬁnding groups of items bought together that yield a high proﬁt. Several algorithms have been proposed to mine high utility itemsets using various approaches, with more or less complex data structures. Among existing algorithms, one-phase algorithms employing the utility-list structure have shown to be the most eﬃcient. In recent years, the simplicity of the utility-list structure has led to the development of numerous utility-list based algorithms for various tasks related to utility mining. However, a major limitation of utility-list based algorithms is that creating and maintaining utility-lists are time consuming and can consume a huge amount of memory. The reasons are that numerous utility lists are built and that the utility-list intersection/join operation to construct utility-lists is costly. This paper addresses this issue by proposing an improved utility-list structure called utility-list buﬀer to reduce the memory consumption and speed up the join operation. This structure is integrated into a novel algorithm named ULB-Miner (Utility-List Buﬀer for high utility itemset Miner), which introduces several new ideas to more eﬃciently discover high utility itemsets. ULB-Miner uses the designed utility-list buﬀer structure to eﬃciently store and retrieve utility-lists, and reuse memory during the mining process. Moreover, the paper also introduces a linear time method for constructing utility-list segments in a utility-list buﬀer. An extensive experimental study on various datasets shows that the proposed algorithm relying on the novel utility-list buﬀer structure is highly eﬃcient in terms of both execution time and memory consumption. The ULB-Miner algorithm is up to 10 times faster than the FHM and HUI-Miner algorithms and consumes up to 6 times less memory. Moreover, it performs well on both dense and sparse datasets.
